political analyst mwan
Bish uh Madan I think you know we're
hearing very much an Israeli perspective
of not just someone whose relative is
being held in in in Gaza but also you
know very much the Israeli perspective
of of this War I want to know if you
think that the Israeli government is in
any way prioritizing the
captives well uh just to be
clear uh it's a terrible thing it's a
terrible thing that an 84 yearold is
held captive in
Gaza just as we feel for the families
who lost who lost countless children and
mothers and sisters 20,000 plus children
in Gaza we also feel the for the old
people and for the young people who are
held captives there's absolutely no
doubt about that one cannot prioritize
human suffering and I feel for Daniel
just like I feel for
ad or Muhammad in
Gaza but there is a political issue
involved here one has to be very clear
about the humanitarian but also one has
to be very clear about the political in
today's newspaper editorial
today the paper a
mainstream paper
accused Benny Gans who was supposed to
be the moderate in the war cabinet of
lying to the Israeli people
when he says that we are attacking Rafa
to save the captives M accused him of
lying because he is lying Netanyahu is
lying Eisen Cott is lying they are lying
when they say we do not accept the
captive uh prisoners deal in order to
serve the captives and you're saying
that because I think it's only something
like three Israeli captives how the
number of Israeli captives that have
been uh rescued in Israeli operations
compared to the number that were
released through a ceasefire agreement
it pales in comparison it's
insignificant isn't it absolutely
absolutely no and it's it's actually
much worse than that of course one of
them was not held with Hamas the first
one and they killed a two of them
holding White flags and so on so forth
so no I mean this doesn't even compare
Israel's policy towards its own captives
has been criminal but it was clear from
day one Netanyahu and his work and they
said we number one is defeating Hamas
number two is the captives and they are
have gone along that way for the past
seven months and in the process they've
killed countless Palestinians so once
again while we identify with the
suffering of any Israeli we have to bear
in mind that more than 100,000
casualties have already paid the price
with the total Destruction of Gaza Gaza
today is not H hostage by Hamas Gaza
today is held hostage by Israel because
Hamas accepted the deal that was
provided to it by the United States Yeah
by Bill Burns the director of the CIA
and let me say something which I which I
find quite uh
disturbing uh and I think something
needs to be looked at and I haven't seen
many much on
it Bill Burns is a 40-year-old
Diplomat who worked for both Democratic
and Republican administrations I've just
finished his book back Channel he's a
very very seasoned Diplomat that knows
very well the Arab world I think when he
reached that deal he reached the final
deal that basically should have been
accepted by Israel after it was accepted
by Hamas because he did not offer
something from the top of his mind the
fact that we are now going back again to
the cycle of diplomacy as if nothing
happened two days ago it tells me that
there's a problem in Washington not just
in t Aviv yeah that's exactly what I was
going to ask you what game is Netanyahu
playing by saying that the deal that
Hamas agreed to is not one that Israel
agreed to when it was put to Hamas by
Qatar and Egypt and the US which surely
wouldn't put a deal to Hamas that the
you know that Israel wouldn't agree
to Netanyahu is known in international
circles and Israeli circles as the
ultimate liar he a pathological liar and
he does not want a ceasefire he wants a
total war in Gaza on Gaza on Palestine
and he wants a total occupation of of
Gaza that's what he wants but that's not
my problem I we've known that for the
past seven months I am talking about
something different here I am saying
that's expected for metano what is not
expected is why is Bill Burns being
stabbed in the back by his own
Administration that's what I'm talking
about why didn't blinkin support Bill
Burns the past 48 Hours when Bill Burns
came back with a deal that should have
been accepted because Bill Burns
accepted it face value as this is the
deal yeah this was the American deal as
I said he is far more uh experienced
than blinkin the Secretary of State he's
far more seasoned Diplomat he knows the
region and he knows Israelis and
Palestinians All Too Well when he
reached that deal it was on the basis
that the Egyptians the Israelis the
kataris and Hamas are on board now the
fact that then this was rejected with
some hyper hyperbolic Language by
Netanyahu without him being supported by
his own Administration yeah so the
question a problem yeah so the question
then isn't why did Netanyahu do that
it's why isn't the US Administration
supporting their head of intelligence
absolutely and here there's a good
number of um I don't know educated
guests my my first educated guest and
that's why today the state department
once again post not once again it
postponed a deadline to answer the
simple question is Israel violating
American law and international
humanitarian law everyone in the world
knows Israel is violating International
but anyway apparently it's a very
complicated report that they said the be
that as it may blinkin has gone out of
his way for the past seven months to
justify Israel's war crimes and to
defend Israel no matter what the case is
and he has the president's ear now the
president is already a self- declared
Zionist but the president has his
presidency at stake at this point in
time as Senator Sanders said this is his
Vietnam he will be like Johnson a
one-time president if he continues on
the same
path secret uh director Burns brought
them a deal that is excellent for
everyone and could wind down the war and
bring the the H hostages the captives
back and release prisoners and end the
unfolding genocide in
Gaza Israel rejected it and the United
States did not stand behind its director
of intelligence of the C of CIA which is
I think problematic even in terms of not
just what happened the past 3 days but
also what's going to happen in the next
two 3 days and 3 weeks cuz every if
every time Burns William Burns is going
to reach a deal that's going to be
torpedoed by the Israelis and the Biden
Administration is not going to stand for
it then what are we doing in in Cairo
and Doha and T Aviv yeah what are we
doing I'm I'm told we'll run out of time
for this one sure but stop giving me
answers that beg more questions for now
that is our senior political analyst
Maran Bashar
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer